---
title: 20230912 news
---

## psychology

> miscellaneous
> /ˌmɪsəˈleɪniəs/
> 各种各样的
> consisting of many different kinds of things that are not connected and do not easily form a group
>
> psychopathy
> Psychopathy is a neuropsychiatric disorder marked by deficient emotional responses, lack of empathy, and poor behavioral controls, commonly resulting in persistent antisocial deviance and criminal behavior.
> 
> neuropsychiatry神经精神病学
> the branch of medicine dealing with mental disorders attributable to diseases of the nervous syste
>
> deficient有缺陷的;
> Someone or something that is deficient is not good enough for a particular purpose.
>
> persistent持续的；反复出现的
> continuing for a long period of time without interruption, or repeated frequently, especially in a way that is annoying and cannot be stopped
>
> deviancea异常
> state or condition markedly different from the norm

Psychological Disorders
What are mental disorders?
Mental disorders (or mental illnesses) are conditions that affect your thinking, feeling, mood, and behavior. They may be occasional or long-lasting (chronic). They can affect your ability to relate to others and function each day.

There are many different types of mental disorders. Some common ones include:

- Anxiety disorders, including panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and phobias
- Depression, bipolar disorder, and other mood disorders
- Eating disorders
- Personality disorders
- Post-traumatic stress disorder
- Psychotic disorders, including schizophrenia

> chronic
> (especially of a disease 尤指疾病) 长期的；慢性的
lasting for a long time; difficult to cure or get rid of
>
> compulsive(of behaviour 行为) 难以制止的；难控制的
> that is difficult to stop or control
>
> phobia 恐惧；憎恶
> A phobia is a very strong irrational fear or hatred of something.
>
> schizophrenia
> 精神分裂症
> a mental illness in which a person becomes unable to link thought, emotion and behaviour, leading to withdrawal from reality and personal relationships
>
> withdraw退出（组织）
> the act of no longer taking part in sth or being a member of an organization
>
> psychotic 精神病患者
a person suffering from severe mental illness




## search engine usage

google 
baidu
\
精确 模糊

## ebook

### amazon book

set browser vpn -> usa
the **book** product category can show up




### science fiction

末日之旅
加斯汀 . 柯羅寧
Justin Cronin
zlibrary

### SEARCH

- DK

author:DK
https://zh.zlibrary-jp.se/author/DK


https://zh.zlibrary-jp.se/s/DK/?noJs=1&yearFrom=&yearTo=&languages%5B0%5D=traditional+chinese&languages%5B1%5D=chinese

- Oxford

《a very short introduction》

- 第一推动丛书

  https://zh.zlibrary-jp.se/s/?q=%E7%AC%AC%E4%B8%80%E6%8E%A8%E5%8A%A8%E4%B8%9B%E4%B9%A6

- Big Fat Notebook
  https://zh.zlibrary-jp.se/s/Big%20Fat%20Notebook

## english



An organization is an assemblage of people who unite to undertake a common goal, led by a person or a group thereon.	


institution机构
An institution is described a form of organization, which is set up for an educational, religious, social or professional cause.